Programming Documentation For


MAC-2-DOS


OVERVIEW

Mac-2-Dos is a program which utilizes a special hardware interface
to permit the Amiga to read and write Macintosh files via a
Macintosh floppy disk attached to the Amiga.


DESIGN PHILOSOPHY

Macintosh floppy disks are formatted using a bizarre bit encoding
scheme known as GCR, which, unlike MFM, used by MS-DOS and Amiga
computers, encodes specific data bit patterns by a lookup table.
Fortunately, the Amiga hardware includes options to perform basic
GCR reads and writes.  Note, however, that since the standard Amiga
system software does NOT utilize the GCR hardware features, there is
no guarantee that they will function correctly on a machine which
otherwise appears to be working correctly.

Macintosh diskettes are written at five different rotational speeds,
permitting data to be stored at more-or-less unifirm density on all
the tracks, yet permitting more actual data to be stored on the
outer tracks.  Since the rotational speed of Amiga floppy drives is
fixed, they cannot read or write Macintosh floppy disks.  Thus the
decision to develop a hardware solution permitting attachment of
Macintosh floppy drives to the Amiga.

Older Macintosh floppy drives require that the computer monitor and
control the speed of the floppy drive.  Newer Macintosh floppy
drives ignore the speed control signal from the computer and monitor
and control their own speed.  However, Mac-2-Dos was designed to
work with both types of Mac floppy drives; for that reason the
program includes code to monitor and control the speed of the drive,
based on the type of drive which is attached.

Mac-2-Dos also includes an AmigaDOS floppy device driver which
permits Mac floppy drives made by ?? to be used as Amiga floppy
drives as well as reading and writing Mac floppy disks.  These
drives are no longer available, so this feature of Mac-2-Dos has
been discontinued.


MODULE DESCRIPTION

Mac-2-Dos consists of 18 source modules and 2 include files.

MACROS.ASM and BOXES.ASM are include files assembled with all source
modules.  MACROS.ASM is a set of common assembly language macros
defining a pseudo language used in the source modules.  BOXES.ASM is
a set of equates defining the coordinates of messages, gadgets, and
windows used in the program.

MAC.ASM contains initialization and exit code, and main event loop
processing code.

CMDS.ASM contains major routines selected from the menu bar.

COPY.ASM is the main routine for copying files in either direction
(from Mac to Amiga or Amiga to Mac).

BUFFERS.ASM contains memory allocation routines.

DISKCMDS.ASM performs Macintosh disk drive specific commands.

DOSFILES.ASM contains AmigaDOS open, close, read, and write commands
used in copying files.

MACFILES.ASM contains Macintosh file open, close, read, and write
commands used in copying files.

HFS.ASM implements the Macintosh HFS file system.

DISK.ASM contains disk Macintosh drive read/write routines.

GADGETS.ASM contains tables for all gadgets used in the program.

ILBM.ASM contains routines used in translating Amiga ILBM files to
and from Macintosh MacPaint format.

IMAGES.ASM contains gadget imagery in bitmap format.

MENUS.ASM contains menu tables for the menu bar.

MESSAGES.ASM contains language-specific text and error messages.

WIND.ASM contains routines to build, display, and scroll the two
catalog windows.

XLATE.ASM contains ASCII translation tables.

FUN.ASM contains string manipulation and requester routines.

VERSION.ASM contains text strings defining the copyright notice and
version of the program.


BUILDING INSTRUCTIONS

Each source module is assembled using the CAPE assembler, and the
resulting object modules linked via BLINK.


TRICKS, TRAPS, AND GOTCHAS

The measurement of floppy rotational speed and control of the motor
lead to set speed required careful timing.  After considerable
experimentation on the Amiga, I determined that Timer B offered
sufficient accuracy with low overhead.


SUPPORT ISSUES

Several public domain programs have been placed on the Mac-2-Dos
disk to provide the user with file conversions which are not
directly supported by Mac-2-Dos.  Permission has been obtained from
their authors to do this.


COMMENTS

Additional conversion options should be added to Mac-2-Dos to
improve its usefulness.  This includes IFF to/from PICT2, and
encapsulated PostScript.
