Programming Documentation For


DOS-2-DOS


OVERVIEW

Dos-2-DOs is a program which permits the Amiga to read and write
MS-DOS and Atari floppy disks using the Amiga's internal and
external 3.5-inch and 5.25-inch floppy disk drives.  Dos-2-Dos takes
over one of the Amiga's floppy drives and retains control as long as
the program runs.  AmigaDOS cannot access that floppy drive until
Dos-2-Dos terminates.

This program exists in Swedish and English language versions.


DESIGN PHILOSOPHY

The Amiga uses MFM bit encoding on its floppy disks, which is the
same bit encoding scheme used by both MS-DOS and Atari disk formats.
However, the sector numbering and sector content schemes are
completely different.  For that reason, the Amiga cannot directly
read and write MS-DOS or Atari disks, even though the Amiga hardware
is physically capable of performing the necessary disk reads and
writes.

The Amiga system software includes a floppy disk driver called
Trackdisk.device.  This device driver offers a direct "raw" read and
write capabilty which, in theory, should work fine for reading and
writing MS-DOS and Atari diskettes.  However, the early versions of
Trackdisk.device contained several serious bugs which prevented the
raw reads and writes from performing properly.  For this reason,
Dos-2-Dos contains its own driver software which handles direct disk
reads and writes for the selected floppy drive.  Because of inter-
ference from Trackdisk.device, Dos-2-Dos uses a non-standard (and
potentially troublesome) trick to keep Trackdisk.device from
disturbing the selected disk drive while Dos-2-Dos is running.

Dos-2-Dos contains a rudimentary MS-DOS file system, sufficient to
read and write any MS-DOS file from the root directory or any
selected subdirectory.

Dos-2-Dos is written as a command-line style program.  There were
originally several good reasons for this approach.  By today's
standards, the program seems archaic and should be rewritten to use
the Intuition-style interface.


MODULE DESCRIPTION

Dos-2-Dos consists of eight source modules and two include files.

D2DMAC.ASM is an include file containing common macros and equates
used in more than one module of the program.

IO.MAC is an include file used with DISK.ASM.

D2D.ASM contains initialization and exit code, and logic to decode
operator commands.

DEVICE.ASM contains code to find the specified floppy drive and
investigate its capacity.

DISK.ASM contains a floppy device driver capable of reading and
writing raw data from the floppy drive, for encoding and decoding
MFM data, and for finding and verifying the integrity of individual
sectors in the data of a track.  It also contains code for checking
disk protection, finding track 0, and stepping the heads.

MAIN.ASM contains the MS-DOS filing system and logic for formatting
MS-DOS diskettes.  It also contains code for translating MS-DOS
ASCII characters to and from Amiga ASCII, icluding the extended
ASCII characters.

MESSAGES.ASM contains the language-dependent text messages used in
Dos-2-DOs.

FUN.ASM contains text manipulation subroutines.

XLATE.ASM contains ASCII character translation tables.

VERSION.ASM contains text messages used to identify the version of
Dos-2-Dos and to display specific greeting messages which exist in
the demo and evaluation versions.


BUILDING INSTRUCTIONS

Each source module is assembles using the CAPE assembler.  The
object modules are linked using BLINK to produce the final
executable program.  Demo and evaluation versions are produced by
linking different versions of VERSION.ASM and D2D.ASM.

A special version of Dos-2-Dos designed to handle 80-track 5.25-inch
diskettes is called D2D80, and is produced by linking with a special
version of MAIN.OBJ called MAIN80.OBJ.  Instructions for assembling
MAIN80.OBJ are found inside the MAIN.ASM module.


TRICKS, TRAPS, AND GOTCHAS

Dos-2-Dos uses a non-standard method to "disable" Trackdisk.device,
for the floppy disk drive selected by the operator be the MS-DOS
drive.  By accessing a "private" area of the unit table structure
maintained by Trackdisk.device, Dos-2-Dos can prevent Track-
disk.device from interfering with Dos-2-Dos.  It does this by
finding the "select" bits used by Trackdisk.device to address the
selected drive.  By setting these select bits to zero, Dos-2-Dos
causes Trackdisk.device to access a non-existent drive.  Dos-2-Dos
restores these bits upon relinquishing controlof the drive, allowing
Trackdisk.device to access the drive once again.

The problem with this technique is that the select bits can be (and
have been) moved inside the private unit table from version to
version of Trackdisk.device.  The result is that Dos-2-Dos may be
incompatible with new versions of Trackdisk.device, forcing a
revision to Dos-2-Dos.

There are several different ways to correct this problem which have
been proposed from time to time by various Amiga experts.  However,
the approach used by Dos-2-Dos does work reliably.


SUPPORT ISSUES

MS-DOS and Atari diskettes are formatted using an "index" pulse
which defines an arbitrary "beginning" for each track.  By
definition, sector one of each track must occur within a measurable
number of microseconds after the occurance of the index pulse.  The
AmigaDOS disk format does not enforce such a restriction and, in
fact, the Trackdisk.device does not even use the index pulse,
although the signal is available from the drive.  

Since the Amiga system software never utilizes the index pulse, it
is quite possible for the Amiga to read and write data from a disk
drive which does NOT produce the index pulse.  However, Dos-2-DOs
REQUIRES the index pulse, since MS-DOS disks produced by Dos-2-DOs
must conform to the index pulse standard in order to be read by an
MS-DOS or Atari computer.  This leads to the possibility that
Dos-2-Dos may not work at all on a drive which works fine for Amiga
disks.

If Dos-2-DOs cannot detect the index pulse within the time required
for two disk revolutions, it reports the problem as "MS-DOS/Atari
drive not ready".  This error also occurs if there is no diskette in
the drive.  If the problem is caused by hardware failure, it can
arise from failure of the drive to generate the pulse or it can be
caused by the CIA chip which controls the drive.  The solution is to
replace the CIA chip or replace the drive.  It can be difficult to
convince a customer that the problem is caused by his hardware when
the computer is able to read and write Amiga diskettes with no
problems!


COMMENTS

Dos-2-DOs currently faces competition from Cross-Dos, a product
which permits direct MS-DOS file access from Amiga programs instead
of forcing files to be converted to AmigaDOS format, as does
Dos-2-Dos.  Each approach has its advantages, and Dos-2-DOs
continues to sell despite the competition.

